[irods/irods#7984] Document rebalance with partial success, commands to query replicas (#424)
irods/irods_docs: docs/plugins/composable_resources.md

```

When a rebalance completes successfully, the timestamp AVU is removed.

> If the rebalance operation encounters data objects that cannot be replicated, due to being stale or locked, a `-1834000 REBALANCE_NOT_COMPLETE` message will be displayed and a non-zero exit code is returned after replicating all remaining good data objects. Afterwards, the unreplicated data objects must be handled manually if replication is still desired.

Reviewer: what non-zero error code?   can we know and be explicit here?

Author: I didn't specify the error code mostly since the tests only look for a non-zero code. I don't think we're making a guarantee about the specific code that is returned.

Reviewer 2: That's correct. The exit codes are not consistent across icommands. I think checking for nonzero is the only thing of value for anyone using icommands in scripts.

> If the rebalance operation encounters data objects that cannot be replicated, due to being stale or locked, a `-1834000 REBALANCE_NOT_COMPLETE` message will be displayed and a non-zero exit code is returned after replicating all remaining good data objects. Afterwards, the unreplicated data objects must be handled manually if replication is still desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the rebalance operation encounters data objects that cannot be replicated due to being stale or locked, a `-1834000 REBALANCE_NOT_COMPLETE` message will be displayed and a non-zero exit code is returned after replicating all remaining good data objects. Afterwards, the unreplicated data objects must be handled manually if replication is still desired.
```

Author: Done.

> To find all data objects with replicas which are not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:

Reviewer 2: Where does `ptTest` come from? I don't see any other mention of it except here.

Author: It's just an arbitrary resource name for the example query. Can update if desired.

Reviewer 2: I think the wording needs to setup the scene. For example, you can add a statement which starts off like `Assume we have the following resource hierarchy ... blah blah blah`.

Author: Done.

```

> SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Reviewer 3: May wish to limit the example query to the resource hierarchy which is being rebalanced. There could be non-good replicas in the system which are not related to the rebalance operation which did not complete.

Reviewer: agreed.   good catch.

Author: Updated to check the resource hierarchy.

> SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_RESC_HIER LIKE '%ptTest%' and DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Author: I think this is the only way to query for a `ptTest` that is independent of where `ptTest` is in the hierarchy, but this would also match other resources with `...ptTest...` as part of the name... Thoughts on this?

Author: Answered: https://github.com/irods/irods_docs/pull/424#discussion_r3306470310

> For example, assume that reblance has failed on a hierarchy with the root resource being 'ptTest'. To find all data objects with replicas which are not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, assume that reblance has failed on a hierarchy with the root resource being 'ptTest'. Run the following to find all data objects with replicas which are not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:
```

Author: Done.

```

> To get the number of data objects with replicas which are not marked "good":

Author: Consider removing the quotations around good. That is the proper name of the replica status: https://docs.irods.org/5.0.2/system_overview/data_objects/#replica-status

Reviewer: I think the quotes are okay - or perhaps you're looking to make them backticks which makes it look like a literal or codename?

I think backticks could be more correct... please look around and compare to other places where we talk about replica statuses.

Author: > I think the quotes are okay - or perhaps you're looking to make them backticks which makes it look like a literal or codename?

Just didn't like the quotes around the word _good_, they make it look ironic or scare quotish to me.

> I think backticks could be more correct... please look around and compare to other places where we talk about replica statuses.

Most uses of _good_ are not quoted, nor do they have backticks.

Author: Removed quotes.

> For example, assume that reblance has failed on a hierarchy with the root resource being 'ptTest'. Run the following to find all data objects with replicas which are not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, assume that rebalance has failed on a hierarchy with a root resource 'ptTest'. Run the following to find all data objects with replicas not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:
```

Author: Done.

```

> SELECT COUNT(DATA_COLL_ID) WHERE DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Author: Not sure if `DATA_ID` is more appropriate here, or if `DATA_COLL_ID` is what is best...

Reviewer: I think DATA_ID is correct - that will match which data objects have non-good replicas...

DATA_COLL_ID will be the COLL_ID of the parent of the data objects in question... so I don't think that's right.

Author: Updated to `DATA_ID`.

> SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_RESC_HIER LIKE 'ptTest;%' and DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
iquest "SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_RESC_HIER LIKE 'ptTest;%' and DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'"
```

Author: Done.

> To get the number of data objects with replicas which are not marked good:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the number of data objects with replicas which are not marked good, run:
```

Does this build off of the `ptTest` example? Do we need to include the `DATA_RESC_HIER` condition for this example?

Author: I'll have the query follow the previous example for consistency. Adding the condition.

Author: Added more words to text describing the query, and limited the query using `DATA_RESC_HIER`.

> SELECT COUNT(DATA_ID) WHERE DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
iquest "SELECT COUNT(DATA_ID) WHERE DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'"
```

Author: Done.

> And to get the number of data objects with replicas which are not marked good in the resource 'ptTest', run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And to get the number of data objects with replicas not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy, run:
```

Author: Done.

If the rebalance operation encounters data objects that cannot be replicated, due to being stale or locked, a `-1834000 REBALANCE_NOT_COMPLETE` message will be displayed and a non-zero exit code is returned after replicating all remaining good data objects. Afterwards, the unreplicated data objects must be handled manually if replication is still desired.

To find all data objects with replicas which are not marked good that are part of the 'ptTest' resource hierarchy:
```

> SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_RESC_HIER LIKE '%ptTest%' and DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'

Reviewer 3: This would also match resources like `helloptTesthello`. You can only target a root resource for rebalance, so we can assume it is a root. I think it should be like this:
```suggestion
SELECT COLL_NAME, DATA_NAME WHERE DATA_RESC_HIER LIKE 'ptTest;%' and DATA_REPL_STATUS != '1'
```
Does that seem correct?

Author: Gotcha, will update.

Author: Done.
